**Purpose** Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells containing the photopigment melanopsin are known to contribute to non-perceptual visual functions of pupil constriction and circadian entrainment. It has been suggested that these ipRGCs also contribute to visual perception, but it is yet unclear how, and how signals originating with stimulation of melanopsin and signals originating with stimulation of the cones. Here we investigate whether changes in the melanopsin stimulation level of a steady background affect thresholds for detecting light flicker seen only by the cones.

**Method** Sensitivity to LMS-directed flicker was measured on 4 adapting fields. One pair of backgrounds nominally differed only in their melanopic content, with the high-melanopic background a 350% contrast step higher than the low-melanopic background; the other pair of backgrounds nominally differed in LMS content by a 350% contrast step. Stimuli were presented as 27.5° diameter field, of which the central 5° was physically blocked, using a 56 effective primary digital light synthesis engine, and viewed through a pharmacologically dilated pupil. All backgrounds were tested in separate conditions, after 5 minutes of adaptation to the background. Flicker sensitivity was tested using a two-interval forced-choice design, with two 500ms intervals per trial (separated by 500ms ISI) of which one contained a 5 Hz flicker stimulus. The LMS-directed contrast of the flicker stimulus was computer-controlled using an adaptive staircase procedure between 0%-5%. For each of the four backgrounds, 120 trials were completed per session and threshold contrast values were defined as the 70.71% correct rate on a Weibull psychometric function fit to the data. 3 non-naive participants (the authors) completed 4 sessions each.

**Results** Flicker contrast sensitivity on the high melanopic background was not significantly different from thresholds on the low melanopic background for any of the three participants (just-noticeable differences on high-melanopic background were 0.89x, 1.02x, and 1.03x the JND on the low-melanopic background). Sensitivity on the high-LMS background was higher (JND 3.81x, 4.14x, 4.50x) than on the low-LMS background by a factor roughly consistent with Weber's law.

**Conclusion** A large change in melanopic content of an adaptation field did not affect sensitivity to LMS-directed flicker. As a positive control, an equally large change in LMS content of an adaptation field affects sensitivity to LMS-directed flicker in line with known properties of the visual system. These findings suggest melanopsin stimulation does not affect sensitivity of cone mechanisms in this paradigm. 